*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 53236 ***

[Transcriber's Note: Bold text is surrounded by =equal signs= and
italic text is surrounded by _underscores_.]



Price 25 cents.




A Thanksgiving Dream

_A One Act Play for Children_


_By_ Effa E. Preston


PAINE PUBLISHING COMPANY DAYTON, OHIO

_Song Specialties for Your Entertainments_


Teachers are discovering that no matter how much novelty there is in
their entertainment, how well it is arranged, how thoroughly drilled,
if they want to hold the active interest of the audience they must use
the best of songs. The songs must be real novelties. The words must be
interesting as well as decidedly clever. The music must be catchy and
abounding in rich melody. With these things in mind we have prepared
this list of superior song novelties for our patrons. All are in
regular sheet music form.

  _=Price, 35 cents each; 5 for $1.25=_


WELCOME SONGS

  We’ve Just Arrived from Bashful Town.
  We Hope You’ve Brought Your Smiles Along.
  Come and Partake of Our Welcome Cake.
  We’re Very Glad to See You Here.
  With Quaking Hearts We Welcome You.


CLOSING SONGS

  Mr. Sun and Mrs. Moon.
  Now, Aren’t You Glad You Came?
  We Do Not Like to Say Goodbye.
  We’ll Now Have to Say Goodbye.

  _=Paine Publishing Co., Dayton, Ohio=_




A Thanksgiving Dream


  _A One Act Play for
  Primary Children_


  _By_ EFFA E. PRESTON


  PAINE PUBLISHING COMPANY
  DAYTON, OHIO




A Thanksgiving Dream


CHARACTERS

    JACK—A small boy.

    PILGRIM MAIDS—Five girls in colonial costume.

    INDIANS—Two boys in Indian costume.

    PUMPKINS—Any number small boys and girls having huge
    paper pumpkins pinned on them.

    TURKEYS—Five children with paper turkeys pinned on them.

    GOBLINS—Any number of small boys wearing hideous false
    faces.

After each group has spoken it goes off stage. After Jack’s last speech
he leaves stage and all the others return and sing the closing song.

If desired the costuming may be elaborate, but it is not at all
necessary.


  COPYRIGHT, 1922, BY
  L. M. PAINE




A Thanksgiving Dream


  JACK:
  I had the grandest dinner—
    Pudding and cake and pie—
  Turkey and mashed potato
    Ice cream—it makes me sigh
  To think that anything was left
    Of all that dandy meal,
  But I couldn’t eat another bite
    So very full I feel.
  I guess I’ll take a nap till supper time.
  [_Yawns, stretches, lies down and sleeps._]

  _Enter_ PILGRIM MAIDS.

  ALL:
  We’re Pilgrim Maids of long ago
    When all this world was new,
  And stories of that far off time
    We shall relate to you.

  FIRST:
  Our fathers came from England here
    Across the stormy sea,
  And many hardships they endured
    To gain their liberty.

  SECOND:
  The Indians were our trusty friends
    And taught us many things—
  To plow—to plant—to fish—to hunt—
    And what each season brings.

  THIRD:
  A harvest bountiful we gleaned
    In 1622
  And called the Indians to a feast.
    Such fun you never knew.
  This was the first Thanksgiving Day—
    A day of earnest praise
  For peace and plenty granted us
    After our weary days.

  FOURTH:
  When I was a little, little girl
    My parents went away
  And left me to mind the babies.
    An Indian came that day
  And I pushed the frightened babies
    Who were playing on the floor
  Under two big brass kettles.
    They both began to roar.
  It scared the Indians very much
    When he saw the kettles run
  And he loudly roared “Kettles alive!”
    And threw away his gun.
  I shot him as he ran away,
    They found him just outside.
  I kept the kettles many years
    And told the tale with pride.

  FIFTH:
  My sister and I scared the Indians away
    One night many long years ago
  By changing some pumpkins to Jack-Lanterns bright
    And waving them to and fro.
  In the darkness they thought they were ghosts
    And yelling in fright and alarm
  They fled to the forest as fast as they could—
    So our Jack-Lanterns saved us from harm.

  _Enter_ INDIANS.

  TOGETHER:
  I’m Massoit.
  I’m Samoset.

  FIRST:
  The first Thanksgiving Day
    We feasted with the Pilgrim folks
  And jolly games did play.

  SECOND:
  We brought them turkeys, oysters, deer,
    And stayed to eat them all,
  And Elder Brewster said we’d have
    Thanksgiving Day each fall.

  _Enter_ PUMPKINS.

  ALL:
  We’re the pumpkins your family made into pies
  And we really must say that a boy of your size
  Ought to be so ashamed of himself—for you ate
  Till there wasn’t a piece of pie left on the plate.
  We hope you have a stomach ache—an awful stomach ache.

  _Enter_ TURKEYS.

  ALL:
  Gobble, gobble, gobble,
    Turkeys sad are we.
  This glad Thanksgiving season
    Does not with us agree.

  FIRST:
  Boys talk about Thanksgiving and make an awful fuss—
    The feast that is so fine for them is always death for us.

  SECOND:
  This boy looks nice and tender, friends—he’s plump as plump can be.
    Let’s have a feast ourselves today and eat him fricassee.

  JACK:
  No-no-don’t eat me—don’t I beg—

  THIRD:
  Why not?—You find us tasty.

  JACK:
  Don’t eat me—think what that would mean,
    Oh, please don’t be so hasty.

  FOURTH:
  Don’t listen to his tale of woe—our friends all gobbled loudly.
  His father just chopped off their heads and ate them up so proudly.

  FIFTH:
  Oh, let him go. I can’t be cruel. Yes, let him go. Don’t cry.

  SECOND:
  You chicken-hearted turkeys, you’ll be sorry by and by.

  _Enter_ GOBLINS.

  ALL:
  We are the Thanksgiving Goblins.
    We’ll get you unless you take care.
  We’re after such greedy young people
    So youngster you’d better beware.
  We’ll give you such pains in your tummy
    You’ll wriggle from sunset till morn,
  We’ll pinch you and poke you and pound you—
    You’ll wish you had never been born.

  JACK:
  Please don’t hurt me.

  FIRST:
  After all that dinner he doesn’t want to be hurt.

  SECOND:
  Tell us what you ate.

  JACK:
  I didn’t eat much—just some turkey—
    A leg—and the back—and the wing—
  Potatoes and turnips and cranberry sauce,
    Ice cream, cake, pie, everything.

  THIRD GOBLIN:
  Come, brothers, let’s pinch him.

  [_They gather round_ JACK _and pinch him—he screams_.]

  MOTHER [_calling_]: JACK—JACK.

  GOBLINS _run_. JACK _awakes—rubs eyes, yawns_.

  JACK:
  I must have been sleeping—I dreamed funny things
    About goblins and turkeys, and pies,
  And Pilgrims, and Indians, and all sorts of things,
    They were right here in front of my eyes.
  I hope that my supper is ready—I’m hungry as hungry can be
    I think I dreamed that I ate too much—
  But I won’t let a dream worry me.

[_He leaves stage in answer to his mother’s calls and the_ PILGRIM
MAIDS, INDIANS, PUMPKINS, TURKEYS _and_ GOBLINS _return in the order
named, form group and sing:_]

  _Song—Air:_ OLD BLACK JOE


1.

  We’ve come to warn all the greedy girls and boys.
  Heed our advice though your feelings it annoys.
  Don’t be like Jack o’er the Gobble-uns and pies
  And turkeys, too, will soon appear before your eyes.

_Chorus:_

  Be careful—be careful—
  Listen well to what we say
  And guard your appetite this glad Thanksgiving Day.


2.

  We are but dreams, alas, ’tis all too true,
  When you awake we must vanish far from view.
  But aches and pains we will bring you while we may
  If you are greedy and devour our friends today.


  CURTAIN




Entertainments for All Occasions


_Special Day Entertainments_

  =BEST CHRISTMAS PANTOMIMES=—Irish                       $0.40
  =CHOICE CHRISTMAS DIALOGUES AND PLAYS=—Irish              .40
  =CHOICE CHRISTMAS ENTERTAINMENTS=—Irish                   .40
  =CHRISTMAS AT McCARTHYS’=—Guptill                         .25
  =CHRISTMAS AT PUMPKIN HOLLER=—Guptill                     .25
  =CHRISTMAS EVE AT MULLIGAN’S=—Irish                       .25
  =CHRISTMAS SPEAKIN’ AT SKAGGS’ SKULE=—Irish               .25
  =IN A TOY SHOP=—Preston                                   .25
  =THE PRIMARY CHRISTMAS BOOK=—Irish                        .40
  =PUMPKIN PIE PETER=—Irish                                 .25
  =THE REUNION AT PINE KNOT RANCH=—Irish                    .25
  =SNOWBOUND FOR CHRISTMAS=—Preston                         .25
  =A STRIKE IN SANTA LAND=—Preston                          .25
  =A THANKSGIVING CONSPIRACY=—Irish                         .25
  =A THANKSGIVING DREAM=—Preston                            .25
  =A TOPSY-TURVY CHRISTMAS=—Guptill                         .25


_Dialogues and Children’s Plays_

  =ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR=—Wilbur                            $0.25
  =DOLLS ON DRESS PARADE=—Preston                            .25
  =A PARTY IN MOTHER GOOSE LAND=—Preston                     .25
  =SNAPPY HUMOROUS DIALOGUES=—Irish                          .40


_Recitations and Pantomimes_

  =CATCHY PRIMARY RECITATIONS=—Irish                        $0.30
  =OLD TIME SONGS PANTOMIMED=—Irish                           .40


_Plays_

  =THE DEAREST THING IN BOOTS=—MacKenzie                           $0.25
  =THE GREAT CHICKEN STEALING CASE OF EBENEZER COUNTY=—Richardson    .25
  =THE GREAT WHISKEY STEALING CASE=—Richardson                       .25
  =MISS JANIE; OR, THE CURTAILED COURTSHIP=—Bonham                   .25
  =THAT AWFUL LETTER=—MacKenzie                                      .25
  =THE UNEXPECTED GUEST=—MacKenzie                                   .25


_Monologues_

  =AS OUR WASHWOMAN SEES IT=—MacKenzie                    $0.25
  =ASK OUIJA=—MacKenzie                                     .25
  =THE COUNTRY COUSIN SPEAKS HER MIND=—MacKenzie            .25
  =GLADYS REVIEWS THE DANCE=—MacKenzie                      .25
  =I’M ENGAGED=—MacKenzie                                   .25
  =SHE SAYS SHE STUDIES=—MacKenzie                          .25
  =SUSAN GETS READY FOR CHURCH=—MacKenzie                   .25


  =PAINE PUBLISHING CO.=     =Dayton, Ohio=




_Entertainments for Christmas_



  =CHOICE CHRISTMAS ENTERTAINMENTS=    =By Marie Irish=

For children of all grades. Contents: 50 recitations, 8 monologues, 11
plays and dialogues, 5 drills and marches, 8 tableaux, 4 pantomimes, 8
pantomimed carols, 8 songs, etc. =Price, 40 cents.=


  =THE PRIMARY CHRISTMAS BOOK=    =By Marie Irish=

For children under ten years of age. Contents: 68 recitations, 12
exercises, 7 songs, 6 drills, 12 dialogues and plays, 9 pantomimes.
=Price, 40 cents.=


  =BEST CHRISTMAS PANTOMIMES=    =By Marie Irish=

Twelve pantomimes, each accompanied by complete words, directions and
music. Some are serious and some are in a lighter vein. =Price, 40
cents.=


  =CHOICE CHRISTMAS DIALOGUES AND PLAYS=    =By Marie Irish=

Ten dialogues for Primary Grades, 10 dialogues for Intermediate Grades
and 8 plays for Grammar Grades. =Price, 40 cents.=


  =CHRISTMAS AT McCARTHYS’=    =By Elizabeth F. Guptill=

Brimful of fun and Christmas spirit. For any number of young folks and
children. Time, 30 minutes. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =CHRISTMAS AT PUMPKIN’ HOLLER=    =By Elizabeth F. Guptill=

The old-fashioned school is rehearsing for the Christmas entertainment.
Funny from beginning to end. Time, 30 minutes. For any number of
children. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =CHRISTMAS EVE AT MULLIGAN’S By Marie Irish=

For all grades. 4 males, 5 females. Time, 30 minutes. A most unusual
play. Plenty of wit and humor as well as more serious episodes. Sure to
be a success. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =CHRISTMAS SPEAKIN’ AT SKAGGS’ SKULE=    =By Marie Irish=

A back woods school entertainment is featured. Easy to prepare and
plenty of fun. For 6 boys and 8 girls. Time, 30 minutes. =Price, 25
cents.=


  =IN A TOY SHOP=    =By Effa E. Preston=

In rhyme. For 12 or more small children. A clever little play that will
please. Time, 20 minutes. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =THE REUNION AT PINE KNOT RANCH=    =By Marie Irish=

For upper grades. 5 males and 6 females. Time, 30 minutes. Plenty of
fun and a great surprise. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =SNOWBOUND FOR CHRISTMAS=    =By Marie Irish=

For 4 boys and 4 girls. For mixed grades. Time, 25 minutes. The older
children play Santa Claus for the younger ones. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =A STRIKE IN SANTA LAND=    =By Effa E. Preston=

In rhyme. 8 boys, 7 girls. Time, 20 minutes. Very easy but effective.
=Price, 25 cents.=


  =A TOPSY-TURVY CHRISTMAS=    =By Elizabeth F. Guptill=

Humorous. For any number of children under fourteen years of age. Time,
30 minutes. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =PAINE PUBLISHING CO.=     =Dayton, Ohio=

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Note: Obvious punctuation errors repaired.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Thanksgiving Dream, by Effa E. Preston

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 53236 ***
